@Inject
======
Injection is the most used technology which can "insert" your codes to a certain place of a certain vanilla method.

Injection is similar to the [Events][events] system, where every event can be considered as an injection point and you can inject your codes through listener methods. But injection is more flexible because:

- The Event system may not cover any situations but mixin injection can cover all vanilla methods.
- The Event system reuses codes for different objects but mixin injection can be specific to each class.

Basic
-----

### Injection Method

Injection methods are some special methods in Mixin that will not be invoked directly. Their codes will be injected into their target methods. Injection methods are annotated with ```@Inject```. Such an annotation is used to specify the target method, injection position, and other configurations.

Two parameters are mandatory in  ```@Inject```:

- ```method``` - The name of the target method, which should be in the target class. If the method is overloaded, it should be specified by the descriptors, which will be discussed later.
- ```at``` - The injection position in the target method. 

The most common positions for ```at``` are:

- ```HEAD``` - At the start of the method
- ```TAIL``` - At the end of the method
- ```RETURN``` - Before every return statement of the method

The name of the injection method can be different from the target method while the types and sequences of the parameters should not be changed. Additionally, there is an extra parameter that should be appended to the parameter list of the injection method. 

- ```CallbackInfo``` - If the target method is void.
- ```CallbackInfoReturnable<ReturnType>``` - If the target method has a return value.


Here is an example of injection method

```java
@Inject(method = {"methodName"}, at = {@At("HEAD")})
public void onMethodName(Type1 param1, Type2 param2, CallbackInfoReturnable<Boolean> ci){
    ...
}
```

whose target is
```java
public boolean methodName(Type1 param1, Type2 param2){
    ...
}
```

Constructors are also treated as methods with name ```<init>``` but not ```init```. Here are some different situations when injecting into the constructors.

- To inject into non-parameterized constructors, or there is only one constructor no matter whether parameterized or non-parameterized, the method should be ```method = {"<init>"}```.  

- To inject into parameterized and overloaded constructors, the method should be specified by the descriptors, which will be discussed later.

- To inject into all constructors, the method should be ```method = {"<init>*"}```.

- The injection position of constructors can only be ```TAIL``` or ```RETURN```.

- To inject into static blocks, the method should be ```method = {"<clinit>"}```



### Injection Codes
Injection codes are the codes in the injection methods that will be injected into the target methods.

Most time you can complete the injection codes as if they were in the corresponding places of target methods. But to access fields or invoke methods, you should use [Shadow][shadow]. 

Additionally,  ```this``` cannot be directly used to refer to the target instance as the codes are in the mixin class. You should cast ```this``` to ```Object``` and then to the target class. It may seem strange elsewhere, but it is normal in Mixin.

```java
TargetClass self = (TargetClass) (Object) this;
```

If you want to end the methods in advance, or "return" the target method in your injection codes, you should add an optional parameter ```cancellable``` to the annotation.

```java
@Inject(method = {""}, at = {@At("")}, cancellable = true)
```

Then use ```CallbackInfo#cancel()``` to end the target method if it is void
or use ```CallbackInfoReturnable#setReturnValue(T)``` to set the return value and end the target method.

Advanced
--------

### Method Overloading

Methods with different parameter types can have the same name. This is called method overloading, such as ```methodName(int)``` and ```methodName(int,int)```

To inject into overloaded methods, you should explicitly designate the method name as well as their descriptors in the ```()```. The following [Oracle's document][doc] can help you to finish this. Accordingly, the parameters of their injection methods are also different.

| FieldType term | Type      | Interpretation                                                                    |
|----------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|  
| B              | byte      | signed byte                                                                       |
| C              | char      | Unicode character code point in the Basic Multilingual Plane, encoded with UTF-16 |
| D              | double    | double-precision floating-point value                                             |
| F              | float     | single-precision floating-point value                                             |
| I              | int       | int	integer                                                                      |
| J              | long      | long integer                                                                      |
| L ClassName ;  | reference | an instance of class ClassName                                                    |
| S              | short     | signed short                                                                      |
| Z              | boolean   | true or false                                                                     |
| [              | reference | one array dimension                                                               |

Therefore, the injection methods should be:

```java
@Inject(method = {"methodName(I)V"}, at = {@At("HEAD")})
public void onMethodName(int param1, CallbackInfo ci){
    ...
}
```
and

```java
@Inject(method = {"messageName(II)V"}, at = {@At("HEAD")})
public void onMethodName(int param1, int param2, CallbackInfo ci){
    ...
}
```

:::tip
For overloaded constructors, the name is always ```method = {"<init>(...)V"}```. What you need to edit is the parameter type in (). 
:::





[events]: ../../concepts/events.md
[shadow]: 4.shadow.md
[doc]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jvms/se14/html/jvms-4.html#jvms-4.3.2
